---
permalink: /
title: Distort
---

## Anonymity, Confidentiality, and Convenience.

Put simply, Distort restores the ability to have a closed door
conversation _online_.

Distort is a messaging application that is different from other
messaging applications. Distort conversations are private, but take
place over public networks: The content of messages and the recipients
of messages are hidden from everyone outside the conversation. The
Distort messaging service itself, the internet, and its operators see a
message, but cannot decipher its content, nor its recipient.

Put simply, Distort restores the ability to have a closed-door
conversation online. In addition to that, one of Distort's objectives
is to make it infeasible (computationally) to determine who is in the
room, from outside the room. If fact, to take the analogy one step
further, it's impossible to tell from an outsider whether a meeting
even took place at all.

Despite the fact that message recipients are anonymous to outsiders,
Distort allows users in a conversation to authenticate messages from
their peer using digital signatures. We believe this tradeoff should
aid combat certain forms of online harassment and/or
cyber-bullying. This contrasts with other anonymous networks in which
users are completely anonymous and are free of all liability.

Distort reuses existing online social usernames to identify users,
namely Github and Twitter accounts. It uses modern cryptography to
provide security, but the Distort app manages the distribution of key
content completely -- there is no need to exchange QR codes by mail or
digests on pieces of paper. All you need to communicate with Distort
is the app itself, and your recipient's Twitter handle.

## Releasing soon.

Distort is an academic research project under active development. We have
a working prototype, which we are testing on various messaging technology backends, including Redis Pub/Sub, and IPFS.

## Milestones:

 - Alpha extension to the google app store.
 - Installation and usage instructions.
 - Provide messaging statistics and network health.

## I'd like to get involved!

 Contact Distort App <distortapp@protonmail.com> to get involved with
 the project.  We'd love your help!
